Blog post on removing the Clippy plugin interface (#435)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: posts/inside-rust/2019-10-24-Clippy-removes-plugin-interface.md

---
layout: post
title: "Clippy is removing its plugin interface"
author: Philipp Krones

> description: "Now that compiler plugins are deprecated, Clippy is also removing its plugin interface"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Clippy is removing its deprecated plugin interface"
```

Author: Hm that is practically the title then.

team: the Dev tools team (Clippy) <https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/dev-tools#clippy>
---

> Today we're announcing, that Clippy will completely remove its plugin interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today we're announcing that Clippy will completely remove its plugin interface.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Today, we're announcing that Clippy will completely remove its plugin interface.
```

> Using the plugin interface is deprecated for about one and a half year now

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the plugin interface has been deprecated for about one and a half year now
```

> ([rust-lang/rust-clippy#2712]) and emits an unsilenceable warning since then.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
([rust-lang/rust-clippy#2712]). Since then, unsilenceable warnings have been emitted.
```

emitted.  Now that compiler plugins are officially deprecated
([rust-lang/rust#64675]), Clippy will remove its support for the plugin

> interface completely ([rust-lang/rust-clippy#4714]).

Reviewer 3: Should we mention in which stable version this is likely going to be removed?

Author: This would be 1.40, right?

[rust-lang/rust-clippy#2712]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-clippy/pull/2712
[rust-lang/rust#64675]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/64675
[rust-lang/rust-clippy#4714]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-clippy/pull/4714

### How do I migrate from the plugin interface?

> Since some crates are still using the Clippy plugin interface, we want to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are still using the Clippy plugin interface, here are some steps
```
Just focus on the actionable information.

> provide a guide on how to migrate to `cargo clippy`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you can take to migrate to `cargo clippy`.
```

1. `Cargo.toml`: Remove every occurrence of the `clippy` dependency and the
   `clippy` feature.
2. Completely remove every occurrence of `feature(plugin)` and `plugin(clippy)`.
3. Replace every occurrence of `feature = "clippy"` with `feature =
   "cargo-clippy"`. The `cargo-clippy` feature is automatically enabled when

>    running `cargo clippy`.

Reviewer 4: I think this would typically be the wrong guidance. People used `feature = "clippy"` because the canonical lint suppression used to be:

```rust
#[cfg(feature = "clippy", allow(name_of_lint))]
```

The correct migration would be to a tool attr:

```rust
#[allow(clippy::name_of_lint)]
```

There *might* be remaining use cases for `#[cfg(feature = "cargo-clippy")]` but it would be extremely unusual, right?

Author: This is already handled by rustc. Running `cargo clippy` on

```rust
#![cfg_attr(feature = "cargo-clippy", deny(if_not_else))]
// code ...
```

emits

```
warning: lint name `if_not_else` is deprecated and may not have an effect in the future. Also `cfg_attr(cargo-clippy)` won't be necessary anymore
 --> src/main.rs:1:44
  |
1 | #![cfg_attr(feature = "cargo-clippy", deny(if_not_else))]
  |                                            ^^^^^^^^^^^ help: change it to: `clippy::if_not_else`
  |
  = note: `#[warn(renamed_and_removed_lints)]` on by default
```

Author: Also I wanted to write a clippy lint, that detects `cfg_attr(cargo-clippy)` and suggests to remove this, but never got to finish this lint.

https://github.com/flip1995/rust-clippy/commits/cfg_attr_lint

4. CI: You now have to install Clippy via rustup, with `rustup component add

>    clippy`. Once it is installed you can just run `cargo clippy` (for more usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   clippy`. Once it is installed, you can just run `cargo clippy` (for more usage
```
